We edit the error-interceptor and it's working as we could tell. It's not optimal yet though, we just
throw an alert here and the console log,
I want to use that @angular/material dialog though.
Now to use it,
first of all we need to unlock it,
so let's go to the app module and import something from the @angular/material package
and that something is the mat-dialog module. As you know, importing it here isn't enough,
we also have to add it to our imports array down there.
Now we unlock the mat-dialog,
now we can open a dialog by injecting the dialog service into whichever place in our app where we want
to use it and then calling open on the injected object
and there, we pass a reference to the component which we want to use as a content for the dialog and
some additional configuration, like the width for example or additional dynamic data
we want to pass into that component here.
This is how it works,
you can read more about this in the official @angular/material docs of course.
So I want to use my dialog in the error-interceptor here.
Therefore we have to re-add @injectable here because now I want to inject a service into this service,
so add it here and import it from @angular/core, add the constructor and in that constructor, I want to
inject my dialog service, the service name is mat-dialog and it needs to be imported from
@angular/material.
Now we get the dialog available and now we can display something with it
but as you just heard, we need to add a component which we want to use as the content.
So I'll actually add a new component here on the top level nested in a folder which I'll name error
and there, I will add my error.component.ts file. As we learned,
we just create a new class here which I export,
ErrorComponent
and it actually becomes a component by adding the @component decorator here.
Now we don't need to add a selector here because we're not using that component by its selector anyways
but we need a template. A
templateUrl,
this gives us the most flexibility.
So for that I'll add my template file, error.component.html here and I will
point at this file here in my decorator, error.component.html.
So now I'm pointing at that file,
now we can define what we want to see in that error dialog we're going to open. In there, I simply
want to have a h1 tag when I say an error occured and below that, a paragraph with the message and I will
use string interpolation to output a message
property which I'll add to my component here.
Message by default will be an
unknown error occurred.
Now I will have to register this component in my app module by going to declarations there and here,
I will add my error component and make sure to add this import path too.
Now we need to do something special, since we're going to load that component,
neither through a selector nor through routing,
we have to tell Angular that it needs to be prepared to eventually create this component.
It normally detects that it needs to be prepared by the fact that we somewhere used the selector
or that we use it as a component in the router but since we will dynamically create that component or
let that dialog service create it dynamically, we need to tell Angular that this is going to happen
otherwise we would get an error. And for that, we add a fifth item to our ngModule configuration,
the entry components array. You rarely need to use that
but here you do,
there you add the error component and this simply informs Angular that this component is going to get
used, even though Angular can't see it.
So now let's go to the error interceptor and use that dialog service to open a dialog with this error
component.
So here, I will reach out to my dialog service, call the open method and there, I will pass in my error component,
you also need to add an import to that error component in the error-interceptor file then. And with that
added,
here we're opening the error component,
now we should actually be able to already see it.
If we save that and we go back to our sign-up form,
if I use the e-mail address that is already taken,
now you see an error occurred here.